subject line: RELEASE NOTE SIMPLE 2.5

Dear All:
 
We announce the release of a new version of our program package SIMPLE (v2.5)
for single-particle cryo-EM ab initio 3D reconstruction (web: simplecryoem.com)
 
New features include:
 
* A new DDD movie pre-processing program that implements motion correction based
  the same principal strategy as Grigorieff's Unblur. There are two important
  differences: automatic weighting of the frames using a correlation-based
  M-estimator and stochastic continuous optimisation of the shift parameters.
  This enables analysis of movies with severe pathologies due to radiation
  damage or extreme drift.
 
* A new program for DDD movie pre-processing of tomographic tilt-series.
 
* Improved simultaneous 2D alignment and clustering with PRIME2D using a hybrid
  extremal/stochastic hill-climbing search approach, Wiener restoration-based
  CTF correction and acceleration of the search using Hadamard projection
  matching. It is now possible to generate a sub-nanometer resolution ab initio
  3D reconstruction from class averages obtained with PRIME2D in a about 10
  minutes on a laptop (MacBook Pro mid 2015, 2.8 GHz Intel i7, four physical
  cores).
 
* Improved ab initio 3D reconstruction from class averages using stochastic
  neighbourhood hill-climbing for initialisation of the 3D orientation search,
  improving the success rate from around 40% to 90-100% for more challenging
  starting model generation problems, executed with the new program
  ini3D_from_cavgs.
 
* Serial CPU code optimisation through data re-organisation and pipelining.
 
* Improved parallel CPU performance through load balancing as well as data and
  algorithm re-organisation. It is now possible to process data sets of
  realistic size on laptops or lightweight workstations that cost less than
  2,000 USD.
 
* High-level workflows for 2D analysis and initial 3D model generation that
  automates initialisation, updates search parameters automatically and
  dynamically down-scales the images for improved performance.
 
If you need help installing SIMPLE, optimising its execution for your computer
architecture or experience any problems or bugs please use the contact form on
the webpage (www.simplecryoem.com) to file a help ticket. We will endeavour to
respond within two days.
 
Happy image processing!
 
The SIMPLE team:
 
Cyril F Reboul
Michael Eager
Dominika & Hans Elmlund

